---
layout: default
title: The Pale Blue Dot Society
---

## Goal

Nobody on Earth lacks the basics: food, water, clothing, shelter,
medical care, and security.

## Why Now?

We are at a unique period of history where we have the technology and
motivation to actually make this happen. We can do this without
forcing our will upon those who don't want to help.

## Non-Goals

Inequality of wealth is
irrelevant to our goal. We don't care that some have more than
others as long as those with the least have a life with dignity.

## Methods

Drive the cost of basic versions of these goods to zero, or as close
to zero as possible. Then provide everyone on earth with enough
universal basic income to buy these goods.

Let's take these two statements as a given: 1. We are already
extremely productive as a society and 2. Our productivity will
accelerate as robotics and machine intelligence take over a greater
percentage of our work.

Machines can do things that would be absurdly time consuming, not to
mention annoying, for humans. For example, the most efficient way to
grow crops might be to optimize the temperature, water, and nutrients
for each individual plant. We could monitor, water, weed, and prune
each plant individually. The machines could also experiment with
changes to these variables and find optimal settings. We could build a
data set of experiments for millions of individual plants rather than
entire fields.

## Who Will Pay For It?

We will. Our's will be the generation that provides this gift to all
of humanity's descendants.

## What Next?

We will debate ideas for
how to achieve our goals. Some members may start companies to
attempt to realize these goals.

## Background Reading

* [*Agrarian Justice* - Thomas Paine](paine.agrarian-justice.html)

## Continue The Conversation

Email [society@palebluedot.international](mailto:society@palebluedot.international)
or twitter [@palebluedotsoc](https://twitter.com/palebluedotsoc).

## Inspiration

### Carl Sagan, 1994

Look again at that dot. That's here. That's home. That's us. On it
everyone you love, everyone you know, everyone you ever heard of,
every human being who ever was, lived out their lives. The aggregate
of our joy and suffering, thousands of confident religions,
ideologies, and economic doctrines, every hunter and forager, every
hero and coward, every creator and destroyer of civilization, every
king and peasant, every young couple in love, every mother and father,
hopeful child, inventor and explorer, every teacher of morals, every
corrupt politician, every "superstar," every "supreme leader," every
saint and sinner in the history of our species lived there--on a mote
of dust suspended in a sunbeam.

The Earth is a very small stage in a vast cosmic arena. Think of the
rivers of blood spilled by all those generals and emperors so that, in
glory and triumph, they could become the momentary masters of a
fraction of a dot. Think of the endless cruelties visited by the
inhabitants of one corner of this pixel on the scarcely
distinguishable inhabitants of some other corner, how frequent their
misunderstandings, how eager they are to kill one another, how fervent
their hatreds.

Our posturings, our imagined self-importance, the delusion that we
have some privileged position in the Universe, are challenged by this
point of pale light. Our planet is a lonely speck in the great
enveloping cosmic dark. In our obscurity, in all this vastness, there
is no hint that help will come from elsewhere to save us from
ourselves.

The Earth is the only world known so far to harbor life. There is
nowhere else, at least in the near future, to which our species could
migrate. Visit, yes. Settle, not yet. Like it or not, for the moment
the Earth is where we make our stand.

It has been said that astronomy is a humbling and character-building
experience. There is perhaps no better demonstration of the folly of
human conceits than this distant image of our tiny world. To me, it
underscores our responsibility to deal more kindly with one another,
and to preserve and cherish the pale blue dot, the only home we've
ever known.




